PETE LEPAGE: Headless
Chrome allows
you to run Chrome in an
automated environment
without a user interface
or peripherals.
Notifications on Mac
will be shown directly
by the native Mac OS
notification system.
You can now capture
full resolution photos
with the Image Capture API.
And there's plenty more.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 59.
A headless browser
is a great tool
for running automated tests
and server environments where
you don't need to see
the rendered output
or have a visible UI shell--
for example, using
Selenium for unit tests
against your
progressive web app,
to create a PDF of
a Wikipedia page,
or inspecting a
page with DevTools.
Starting in Chrome 59, you
can now run headless Chrome.
It brings all the modern web
platform features provided
by Chrome to the command line.
Check out Eric Bidelman's
post on updates linked below
for full details.
He's got an example on how you
can use it to convert pages
to PDF, dump the DOM, and how
to use it programmatically
in Node.
Chrome has historically included
its own notification system
for Web and extension
developers to show notifications
to the user.
But we've heard from
users and developers
alike that they want Chrome to
use the native OS notification
system.
Starting in Chrome
59 on Mac OS, Chrome
will use the native
notification system,
improving the user
experience and ensuring
that the notifications feel
more integrated in the platform.
My personal favorite,
notifications will now respect
my do not disturb settings.
Because of the way Mac
OS handles notifications,
there are a few
low usage APIs that
are now discouraged as they'll
result in a degraded experience
on Mac OS.
Check out our updates
post linked below
for all the details.
Capturing high res photos
in a web app can be hard.
Either the user has to upload a
photo or they've already taken
or switch from the browser to
their camera, take the photo,
switch back to the browser,
and upload the photo.
With the new Image
Capture API in Chrome 59,
you have full access to the full
resolution of the capabilities
of any available camera.
The API provides
control of features
such as zoom, focus, contrast,
ISO, and even white balance.
Check Sam's post on
updates for full details
and sample code that you can
use to get started right away.
These are just a few of
the changes in Chrome 59
for developers.
Of course, there's plenty more.
Check the description
for more details,
including links
to docs and specs.
Now if you didn't make it
to Google I/O this year,
I've put a few of my favorite
videos on the side there.
So check those out.
Then click the Subscribe
button and you'll
get an email notification
whenever we launch a new video.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 60 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in chrome.